.\"	$FabBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Hypertriton, Inc. <http://hypertriton.com/>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 31 2009 $
.Dt DESIGNTORQUE 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm designtorque
.Nd guidelines for computing design torque
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Follow these guidelines to compute the maximum design torque (in in-lbs),
from a given horsepower and RPM.
The design torque is used to select torque-limiting shaft couplings, or
servo/stepper motors in motion control applications.
The design torque
.Va Tmax
is computed as:
.Bd -literal -offset left
	Tmax = Tnom * (K1*K2*K3)
.Ed
.Pp
The nominal torque
.Va Tnom
is computed as:
.Bd -literal -offset left
	Tnom = (HP * 63025) / RPM
	Tnom = (kW * 9550) / RPM
.Ed
.Pp
.Em K1
is the application service factor:
.Bl -tag -width "K1 = 1.0 - 1.4 "
.It K1 = 1.0-1.4
Small masses to accelerate, uniform operation.
Pumps for non viscous fluids, light-duty generators, blowers, fans, conveyors.
.It K1 = 1.4-1.8
Medium masses to accelerate, uniform operation.
Wood / sheet metal working tools, textile machines, mixers.
.It K1 = 1.7-2.0
Medium masses to accelerate, nonuniform operation.
Pumps for viscous fluids, printing presses, generators, shredders, winding
machines.
.It K1 = 2.0-2.2
Medium masses to accelerate, nonuniform operation and shocks.
Compression pumps, propeller pumps, centrifuges, paper mills, cable cars,
concrete mixers.
.It K1 = 2.2-2.4
Large masses to accelerate, nonuniform operation and shocks.
Piston pumps, stamping and forging pressesshears, excavators, hammer mills.
.It K1 = 2.3-2.8
Very large masses to accelerate, irregular operation and shocks.
Piston compressors and pumps, welding machines, brick presses, stone crushers.
.El
.Pp
.Em K2
specifies the service factor for duty cycle:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width "K2 = 1.15 "
.It K2 = 1.0
Under 8 hours/day.
.It K2 = 1.1
Between 8 and 16 hours/day.
.It K2 = 1.15
Between 16 hours/day and continuous.
.El
.Pp
.Em K3
specifies the service factor for start/stop cycles per hour:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width "K3 = 1.0 "
.It K3 = 1.0
Up to 10 cycles
.It K3 = 1.5
Between 10 and 40 cycles
.It K3 = 2.0
Between 40 and 125 cycles
.It K3 = 2.5
Between 125 and 250 per hour
.El
.\".Sh SEE ALSO
.\".Xr drills 7
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
manual page first appeared in FabBSD 1.0.
