.\"	$OpenBSD: intro.8,v 1.16 2008/06/08 03:03:37 jdixon Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: intro.8,v 1.3 1994/11/30 19:36:24 jtc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)intro.8	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 8 2008 $
.Dt INTRO 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to system maintenance and operation commands
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The manual pages in section 8 contain information related to
system operation and maintenance.
They describe commands concerning file systems,
such as
.Xr fsck 8 ,
.Xr mount 8 ,
and
.Xr newfs 8 .
.Pp
There are pages which document the running of the system, such as
.Xr afterboot 8 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr security 8 ,
and the configuration files located in
.Pa /etc .
Procedures concerning system failure are documented in
.Xr crash 8 .
.Pp
Section 8 pages also describe network services and daemons.
The rest of this page discusses some of the main daemons
available on the FabBSD system, and how to enable/disable them.
.Pp
System daemons are controlled by the script
.Xr rc 8 ,
which is in turn configured by
.Xr rc.conf 8 .
For example the CNC machine control daemon
.Xr machctld 8
is controlled by the following line from
.Xr rc.conf 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Dl machctld_flags=NO
.Ed
.Pp
Thus it is not started by default.
To enable or disable daemon processes,
administrators should edit the file
.Xr rc.conf.local 8 ,
which overrides
.Xr rc.conf 8 .
So to enable
.Xr machctld 8 ,
the following line might be added to
.Pa /etc/rc.conf.local :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
machctld_flags=""
.Ed
or
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
machctld_flags="-b localhost"
.Ed
.Pp
As can be seen above,
this method is also used to specify additional options.
.Pp
Below is a list of some of the daemons available.
For further information, see
.Xr rc 8
and the individual pages for the utilities.
.Ss Automounter daemon (amd)
If using the
.Xr amd 8
package,
go into the
.Pa /etc/amd
directory and set it up by
renaming
.Pa master.sample
to
.Pa master
and editing it and creating other maps as needed.
.Pp
Relevant
.Xr rc.conf 8
variables:
.Va amd ,
.Va amd_dir ,
and
.Va amd_master .
.Ss Clock synchronisation
In order to make sure the system clock is correct,
it may be synchronised with a number of external sources.
The utility available is
.Xr rdate 8 .
.Pp
Relevant
.Xr rc.conf 8
variables:
.Va rdate_flags .
.Ss Concatenated disks (ccd)
If you are using
.Xr ccd 4
concatenated disks, edit
.Pa /etc/ccd.conf .
Use the
.Ic ccdconfig -U
command to unload and the
.Ic ccdconfig -C
command to create tables internal to the kernel for the concatenated disks.
You then
.Xr mount 8 ,
.Xr umount 8 ,
and edit
.Pa /etc/fstab
as needed.
.Ss NFS server
If this is an NFS server,
edit
.Pa /etc/exports .
.Pp
Relevant
.Xr rc.conf 8
variables:
.Va nfs_server
and
.Va nfsd_flags .
.Ss RPC-based network services
Several services depend on the RPC portmapper,
.Xr portmap 8 ,
being running for proper operation.
This includes NFS exports, among other services.
.Pp
Relevant
.Xr rc.conf 8
variables:
.Va portmap .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr afterboot 8 ,
.Xr rc 8 ,
.Xr rc.conf 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm intro
section manual page appeared in
.Bx 4.2 .
