.\"	$FabBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Hypertriton, Inc. <http://hypertriton.com/>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt CNC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cnc
.Nd computer-assisted machining (CAM) interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library provides a number of utility routines specific to FabBSD's
.Xr cnc 4
interface.
.Pp
The
.Fn cnc_vec_*
routines are useful when working with vectors in
.Ft cnc_vec_t
format.
The size of
.Ft cnc_vec_t
is
.Dv CNC_NAXES ,
which may or may not match the setting in
.Xr options 4 .
.Pp
Note that the major
.Xr cnc 4
related operations are implemented as system calls and part of the C library.
They are documented in the section 2 of the manual.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/cnc -compact
.It Pa /dev/cnc
interface to CNC hardware
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cncmove 2 ,
.Xr cncjog 2 ,
.Xr cncjogstep 2 ,
.Xr spinctl 2 ,
.Xr atactl 2 ,
.Xr laserctl 2 ,
.Xr pickplacectl 2 ,
.Xr coolantctl 2 ,
.Xr estop 2 ,
.Xr cnc 3 ,
.Xr cnc_get_error 3 ,
.Xr cnc_set_error 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_add 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_compare 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_distance 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_dotprod 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_length 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_parse 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_print 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_sub 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vec_zero 3 ,
.Xr cnc_vel_parse 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The cnc interface was introduced in FabBSD 1.0.
